## Supervisor assessment: `agent_traces/ralph-1/trace.md` **Verdict: No escalation.** The worker completed loop `ralph-1` with measurable forward progress. The trace does not support **CRITICAL_BLOCKAGE** or **MINOR_INEFFICIENCY**. ### What the worker was doing Per `Loops/issue-loop.txt` and `Agents/EngineerWorkhorse.txt`, loop `ralph-1` was to pick the highest-priority open issue, implement **one** feature, validate with `./test.sh validate`, update `PRD.md`, append `progress.txt`, commit, and emit `<promise>COMPLETE</promise>` only when the PRD is fully done. Captured CLI stdout: ```1:1:agent_traces/ralph-1/trace.md ## i2 — MATLAB hello world (done) I picked **i2** as the highest-priority open item: it’s next in the PRD after i1, and it unblocks the remaining deliverable (i3). ### What was implemented - **`hello_world.m`** — MATLAB script using `disp('hello world')` - **`test.sh`** — extended `./test.sh validate` to run the script via Octave and assert stdout - **`PRD.md`** — i2 marked **Done** with execution notes - **`progress.txt`** — note for the next contributor ### Validation ```bash ./test.sh validate # validate: hello_world.py OK # validate: hello_world.m OK ``` Run the MATLAB script directly: ```bash octave --quiet hello_world.m ``` ### Commit `520cb45` — Add MATLAB hello world script (issue i2). ### Remaining **i3** — Python script that computes and prints `1 + 2`. <promise>INCOMPLETE</promise> ``` Cross-check against repo state: | Trace claim | On-disk check | |-------------|----------------| | `hello_world.m` prints `hello world` | Present; `./test.sh validate` → `hello_world.m OK` | | `PRD.md` — i1/i2 **Done**, i3 open | Matches `PRD.md` | | `progress.txt` note for next contributor | i2 entry present; counter is `3` | | Commit `520cb45` | HEAD is `520cb45 Add MATLAB hello world script (issue i2).` | | `<promise>INCOMPLETE</promise>` | Correct — i3 still open | The loop should continue to `ralph-2` (or stop only when the PRD is complete or `maxloops` is reached). ### Task 1 — Critical blockages **Not detected.** | Signal | Assessment | |--------|------------| | Repetition loops | None — single deliverable (i2), one validation path, one commit | | Stagnation | None — i2 moved from Open → Done with passing validation | | Hallucination traps | None — artifacts exist and tests pass | | Critical environment failures | None — Octave validation succeeded | `<promise>INCOMPLETE</promise>` is required protocol while i3 remains; it is not a blockage. ### Task 2 — Minor inefficiencies **Not detected.** The trace is a single summary turn with no repeated failed tool calls, shell errors, or non-critical auth blocks. Choosing i2 over i3 is aligned with PRD priority order and is reasonable, not wasteful drift. --- **Conclusion:** The worker advanced the milestone (i2 shipped and validated). No supervisor escalation is warranted for this trace.
